DOCS-7632-jms-publish-consume-operation-kt (#1369)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: jms/1.7/modules/ROOT/pages/jms-publish-consume.adoc

= Publish Messages and Consume Replies Examples
:page-aliases: connectors::jms/jms-publish-consume.adoc

Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish consume* operation enables you to publish a message to any destination, and then consume a message reply on a different destination. Request and reply is a very common pattern between applications.

> When using this operation, the JMSReplyTo header of the outgoing message contains the id of the destination on which your application waits to consume a response. The destination may be a well-known destination, or it may be temporary destination created with the purpose of receiving a single response message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using this operation, the `JMSReplyTo` header of the outgoing message contains the ID of the destination on which your application waits to consume a response. The destination might be a well-known destination or a temporary destination created with the purpose of receiving a single response message.
```

Finally, the result of the operation is the message received as a response,
with the same structure as invoking the *Consume* operation.

== Configure the Publish Consume Operation to Receive a Reply On a Temporary Queue

To set a temporary queue, you configure the message being sent, and the operation automatically waits for a response.

In the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message with the current

> `payload` as its body and the JMSReplyTo header configured to a temporary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`payload` as its body and the `JMSReplyTo` header configured to a temporary
```

> destination setting the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
destination setting, and the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
```

Then, the operation automatically tries to consume the response from the temporary
queue until a message is consumed or the *Maximum wait* is reached, in which case
it fails with a `JMS:TIMEOUT` error:

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish consume* operation.
. In the connector configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.

> . Scroll down to the *Consume Configuration* section and set the *Maximum wait* field to `20`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Scroll down to the *Consume Configuration* section and set the *Maximum wait* field to `20`.
```

. Set the *Maximum wait unit* to `SECONDS`.

.Temporary Queue configuration
image::jms-publishconsume-config-1.png[In the Publish consume configuration screen, set the Destination field to the name of the Destination where the message is sent]

In the XML editor, the `destination` and `<jms:consume-configuration>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish-consume
doc:name="Publish consume"
config-ref="config"
destination="targetDestination">
	<jms:consume-configuration maximumWait="20" maximumWaitUnit="SECONDS" />
</jms:publish-consume>
----

== Configure the Publish Consume Operation to Receive a Reply On a Known Queue

To set a known queue for replies, configure the *Reply To* field on the outgoing message.

> In the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the current `payload` as its body and the JMSReplyTo header configured to the known queue setting the *Reply To* field to `replyToDestination`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the current `payload` as its body and the `JMSReplyTo` header configured to the known queue setting, and the *Reply To* field to `replyToDestination`.
```

> Then, the operation automatically tries to consume the response from the known queue `replyToDestination` queue until a message is consumed or the *Maximum wait* is reached, in which case it fails with a `JMS:TIMEOUT` error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the operation automatically tries to consume the response from the known `replyToDestination` queue until a message is consumed or the *Maximum wait* is reached, in which case it fails with a `JMS:TIMEOUT` error:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish consume* operation.
. In the connector configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
. In the *Message* section, set the *Reply To* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Destination Name* field to `replyToDestination`.
. Scroll down to the *Consume Configuration* section and set the *Maximum wait* field to `20`,
. Set the *Maximum wait unit* to `SECONDS`.

.Known Queue configuration
image::jms-publishconsume-config-2.png[In the Publish consume configuration screen, set the Reply To field to The JMSReplyTo header information of the Destination where the message is replied to]

In the XML editor, the `destination` and `<jms:reply-to>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish-consume config-ref="config" destination="targetDestination">
    <jms:message>
        <jms:reply-to destination="replyToDestination"/>
    </jms:message>
			<jms:consume-configuration maximumWait="20" maximumWaitUnit="SECONDS" />
</jms:publish-consume>
----

== Configure Request and Reply Patterns

> In JMS, exists two well-known request and reply patterns to understand how request and reply messages are correlated. In the *Request-Reply Pattern* field of the operation you can configure the *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* and *MESSAGE_ID* patterns. Both ensure that an incoming message is the proper reply of an outgoing message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In JMS, there are two well-known request and reply patterns to understand how request and reply messages are correlated. In the *Request-Reply Pattern* field of the operation, you can configure the *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* and *MESSAGE_ID* patterns. Both ensure that an incoming message is the correct reply for an outgoing message.
```

You can also configure the field to *NONE* to not use any of the patterns, and the consumer tries to consume from the reply queue without using any selector to correlate messages. This option is useful when working with temporal queues that ensure that the queue has only one message.

=== Configure the Correlation ID Pattern

> The *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* pattern implies that the operation after publishing a message to the destination queue, consumes a message using a selector that expects a message with the same correlation id to be used to publish the request message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* pattern implies that the operation, after publishing a message to the destination queue, consumes a message using a selector that expects a message with the same correlation ID that was used to publish the request message.
```

Reviewer: That sentence was a little unclear but I am guessing it means to say, you use a correlation ID when you publish the message and then when the message is consumed, the selector is looking for that correlation ID so it knows it's consuming the correct message.

> In the following example, in the first flow you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the current `payload` as its body and the JMSReplyTo header configured to the known queue setting the *Reply To* field to `replyToDestination`. Also, the operation has configured the *Request-Reply Pattern* field to *CORRELATION_ID (Default)*. +

Reviewer: This is just a suggestion, but I always feel like it's easier to understand what's going on if you turn this into an ul, like:
In the following example, in the first flow, you configure the *Publish consume operation* to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the:

* Current `payload` as its body
* `JMSReplyTo` header configured to the known queue
* *Reply To* field set to `replyToDestination`
* *Request-Reply Pattern* field set to *CORRELATION_ID (Default)*

Then, in the second flow an *On New Message* source reads the published message and responds using the same correlation id pattern. A *Logger* component, logs the message response. +

> Back in the first flow, the *Publish consume* operation consumes the response received and then another *Logger* component, logs the final message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back in the first flow, the *Publish consume* operation consumes the response received and then another *Logger* component, and logs the final message.
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish consume* operation.
. In the connector configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
. Set the *Request-Reply Pattern* to *CORRELATION_ID (Default)*.
. In the *Message* section, set the *Reply To* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Destination Name* field to `replyToDestination`.
. Drag a *Logger* component to right of the Publish consume.

> . Set the *Message* field to `Received message from 'replyToDestination' with Correlation ID: #[attributes.headers.correlationId]`.

Reviewer: The way this is tagged makes it look like the message is:

`Received message from 'replyToDestination' with the Correlation ID: #[attributes.headers.correlationId]`

Is that right?

. Drag a JMS *On New Message* source below the first flow.
. Set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
. Scroll down to the *Response* section, and set the *Request-Reply Pattern* to *CORRELATION_ID (Default)*.

> . Drag another *Logger* component to right of On New Message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag another *Logger* component to right of *On New Message*.
```

= Publish Messages and Consume Replies Examples
:page-aliases: connectors::jms/jms-publish-consume.adoc

> Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish consume* operation enables you to publish a message to any specified destination, and then consume the received message reply on a different specified destination. Request and reply is a very common pattern between applications.

Reviewer 2: Do we need "received message" before "reply"?

Reviewer 2: It makes sense to me that request and reply is common...but request to one destination and receive a reply on another?

When using this operation, the `JMSReplyTo` header of the outgoing message contains the ID of the destination on which your application waits to consume a response. The destination might be a well-known destination or a temporary destination created with the purpose of receiving a single response message.

> Finally, the result of the operation is the message received as a response,

Reviewer 2: Why "Finally,"?

with the same structure as invoking the *Consume* operation.

> == Configure the Publish Consume Operation to Receive a Reply On a Temporary Queue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure the Publish Consume Operation to Receive a Reply on a Temporary Queue
```

To set a temporary queue, you configure the message being sent, and the operation automatically waits for a response.

> In the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message with the:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message with the following characteristics:
```

* Current `payload` as its body
* `JMSReplyTo` header configured to a temporary destination

> * *Destination* field to `targetDestination`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Destination* field set to `targetDestination`
```

> Then, the operation automatically tries to consume the response from the temporary

Reviewer 2: "Then," = after what? Necessary?

queue until a message is consumed or the *Maximum wait* is reached, in which case

> it fails with a `JMS:TIMEOUT` error:

Reviewer 2: This intro should end with a period because this sentence directly before the first step does not refer to the beginning of the task or the task as a whole:
```suggestion
it fails with a `JMS:TIMEOUT` error.
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish consume* operation.
. In the connector configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
. Scroll down to the *Consume Configuration* section and set the *Maximum wait* field to `20`.
. Set the *Maximum wait unit* to `SECONDS`.

.Temporary Queue configuration
image::jms-publishconsume-config-1.png[In the Publish consume configuration screen, set the Destination field to the name of the Destination where the message is sent]

In the XML editor, the `destination` and `<jms:consume-configuration>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish-consume
doc:name="Publish consume"
config-ref="config"
destination="targetDestination">
	<jms:consume-configuration maximumWait="20" maximumWaitUnit="SECONDS" />
</jms:publish-consume>
----

> == Configure the Publish Consume Operation to Receive a Reply On a Known Queue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure the Publish Consume Operation to Receive a Reply on a Known Queue
```

To set a known queue for replies, configure the *Reply To* field on the outgoing message.

> In the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the:

Reviewer 2: ditto Line 15

* Current `payload` as its body
* `JMSReplyTo` header configured to the known queue

> * *Reply To* field to `replyToDestination`

Reviewer 2: Ditto Line 19

> Then, the operation automatically tries to consume the response from the known `replyToDestination` queue until a message is consumed or the *Maximum wait* is reached, in which case it fails with a `JMS:TIMEOUT` error:

Reviewer 2: Ditto Lines 21-23

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish consume* operation.
. In the connector configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
. In the *Message* section, set the *Reply To* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Destination Name* field to `replyToDestination`.

> . Scroll down to the *Consume Configuration* section and set the *Maximum wait* field to `20`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Scroll down to the *Consume Configuration* section and set the *Maximum wait* field to `20`.
```

. Set the *Maximum wait unit* to `SECONDS`.

.Known Queue configuration
image::jms-publishconsume-config-2.png[In the Publish consume configuration screen, set the Reply To field to The JMSReplyTo header information of the Destination where the message is replied to]

In the XML editor, the `destination` and `<jms:reply-to>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish-consume config-ref="config" destination="targetDestination">
    <jms:message>
        <jms:reply-to destination="replyToDestination"/>
    </jms:message>
			<jms:consume-configuration maximumWait="20" maximumWaitUnit="SECONDS" />
</jms:publish-consume>
----

== Configure Request and Reply Patterns

> In JMS, there are two well-known request and reply patterns to understand how request and reply messages are correlated. In the *Request-Reply Pattern* field of the operation, you can configure the *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* and *MESSAGE_ID* patterns. Both ensure that an incoming message is the correct reply for an outgoing message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JMS uses two well-known request and reply patterns that help you to understand how request and reply messages are correlated. In the *Request-Reply Pattern* field of the operation, you configure the *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* and *MESSAGE_ID* patterns. Both ensure that an incoming message is the correct reply to an outgoing message.
```

> You can also configure the field to *NONE* to not use any of the patterns, and the consumer tries to consume from the reply queue without using any selector to correlate messages. This option is useful when working with temporal queues that ensure that the queue has only one message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also configure the field to *NONE*, causing the consumer to try to consume from the reply queue without using any selector to correlate messages. This option is useful when working with temporal queues that ensure that the queue has only one message.
```

=== Configure the Correlation ID Pattern

> The *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* pattern implies that the operation after publishing a message to the destination queue, consumes a message using a selector that expects a message with the same correlation ID that was used to publish the request message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* pattern implies that the operation, after publishing a message to the destination queue, consumes a message using a selector that expects a message with the same correlation ID that was used to publish the request message.
```

> In the following example, in the first flow you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the first flow of the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the following characteristics:
```

* Current `payload` as its body
* `JMSReplyTo` header configured to the known queue

> * *Reply To* field to `replyToDestination`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Reply To* field set to `replyToDestination`
```

> * *Request-Reply Pattern* field to *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Request-Reply Pattern* field set to *CORRELATION_ID (Default)* +
```

> Then, in the second flow an *On New Message* source reads the published message and responds using the same correlation ID pattern. A *Logger* component, logs the message response. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, in the second flow, an *On New Message* source reads the published message and responds using the same correlation ID pattern. A *Logger* component logs the message response. +
```

Back in the first flow, the *Publish consume* operation consumes the response received and then another *Logger* component, and logs the final message.

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish consume* operation.
. In the connector configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
. Set the *Request-Reply Pattern* to *CORRELATION_ID (Default)*.
. In the *Message* section, set the *Reply To* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Destination Name* field to `replyToDestination`.

> . Drag a *Logger* component to right of the Publish consume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Drag a *Logger* component to right of *Publish consume*.
```

</flow>
----

=== Configure the Message ID Pattern

> The *MESSAGE_ID* pattern implies that the operation after publishing a message to the destination queue, consumes a message using a selector that expects a message with a message id of the same value as the message id of the request message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *MESSAGE_ID* pattern implies that the operation, after publishing a message to the destination queue, consumes a message using a selector that expects a message with a message ID of the same value as the message ID of the request message.
```

> In the following example, in the first flow you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the current `payload` as its body and the JMSReplyTo header configured to the known queue setting the *Reply To* field to `replyToDestination`. Also, the operation has configured the *Request-Reply Pattern* field to *MESSAGE_ID*. +

Reviewer: Same comment as before, but that's just a suggestion. Maybe Kim told you to write it like this, so you can ignore me.

> Then, in the second flow an *On New Message* source reads the published message and responds using the same message id pattern. A *Logger* component, logs the message response. +

Reviewer: I'll stop commenting but unless it's code, it should be ID.

</flow>
----

=== Configure the Message ID Pattern

The *MESSAGE_ID* pattern implies that the operation, after publishing a message to the destination queue, consumes a message using a selector that expects a message with a message ID of the same value as the message ID of the request message.

> In the following example, in the first flow you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the first flow of the following example, you configure the *Publish consume* operation to publish a message to the `targetDestination` with the following characteristics:
```

* Current `payload` as its body
* `JMSReplyTo` header configured to the known queue

> * *Reply To* field to `replyToDestination`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Reply To* field set to `replyToDestination`
```

> * *Request-Reply Pattern* field to *MESSAGE_ID*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Request-Reply Pattern* field set to *MESSAGE_ID*
```

> Then, in the second flow an *On New Message* source reads the published message and responds using the same message ID pattern. A *Logger* component, logs the message response. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, in the second flow, an *On New Message* source reads the published message and responds using the same message ID pattern. A *Logger* component logs the message response. +
```

Back in the first flow, the *Publish consume* operation consumes the response received and then another *Logger* component, and logs the final message.

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish consume* operation.
. In the connector configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `targetDestination`.
. Set the *Request-Reply Pattern* to *MESSAGE_ID*.
. In the *Message* section, set the *Reply To* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Destination Name* field to `replyToDestination`.

> . Drag a *Logger* component to right of the Publish consume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Drag a *Logger* component to right of *Publish consume*.
```
